Adding HyperPod x DevOps Agent integration solution (#1191)
aws-samples/awsome-distributed-training: 1.architectures/5.sagemaker-hyperpod/tools/devops-agent/skills/hyperpod-incident-rca/SKILL.md

  stay separate; concurrent periodic audits are skipped).
- **The periodic-audit Lambda gates volume**: for scheduled audits it
  inspects Kubernetes state (CrashLoopBackOff / NotReady) and POSTs the
  webhook only when a real issue exists — so a periodic-audit
  investigation reaching this skill already corresponds to a real
  finding, not an idle poll. HyperPod control-plane faults arrive via
  the event-driven webhook bridge, not the audit.

RCA still does the full Phase 1 gather (including Pod/Node inspection
and Phase 3d threshold checks) because the reasoning stage needs the
full evidence. Earlier RCA "stale-evidence" rules (3 / 3b) were removed
and are not reintroduced — that concern is handled upstream now.

## Workflow

### Trigger modes

The skill is loaded from two trigger sources, and Phase 1 / Phase 3
behavior differs slightly between them:

| Mode | Trigger | Scope |
|---|---|---|
| **Incident mode** | Webhook fire from the bridge Lambda (an EventBridge HyperPod event passed the noise filter). The investigation context carries `clusterName` and usually an `instanceId`. | Focused on the specific incident referenced in the trigger. |

> | **Audit mode** | Scheduled `TIME_BASED` trigger (rate(15 minutes)) creating a task against this skill with no per-incident context. | Scan the cluster(s) configured for this Agent Space for any in-flight or recently-resolved fault chains, and re-classify each one. Catches: (1) `Monitor` incidents that have now succeeded (emit `Resolved`), (2) `Monitor` incidents stuck past their re-check budget (escalate), (3) recurring patterns that didn't trigger an EventBridge event recently but persist statistically. |

Reviewer: ### RCA skill's audit-mode row describes a trigger that doesn't exist in this deployment

**Observation**: The mode table says audit mode is a "Scheduled `TIME_BASED` trigger … with no per-incident context", and Phase 1's audit note says "the trigger payload won't carry a cluster name … discover it via `sagemaker list-clusters`". But in this stack the audit trigger is the periodic-audit Lambda's webhook POST, which *does* carry `clusterName`, `detectedIssues`, and the k8sChecks line — the skill's own step 8 relies on exactly that description text.
**Impact**: The skill instructs the agent to ignore provided context and re-discover the cluster, which both wastes investigation steps and can pick the wrong cluster in a multi-cluster account.
**Suggestion**: Rewrite the audit-mode row/note to match the actual trigger: a synthesized webhook whose description carries the cluster name and detected issues; keep `list-clusters` only as the fallback when the name is genuinely absent.

actionable signal for a periodic audit. The main rule table below
looks at the 4h/24h/7d event history, which is context. When both
would fire, the operator needs the live state surfaced regardless
of whether historical patterns are ALSO present. Do not skip Phase
3d because "the event history already provides an interesting
verdict" — that produced the 2026-07-09 miss where a live
CrashLoopBackOff was overshadowed by a recurring-LCS-pattern
verdict from a *already-resolved* 07-08 storm.

Emitting both a Phase 3d verdict and a Phase 3 verdict on the same
audit is expected and correct. Each becomes its own symptom record;
the operator gets both signals via email.

#### Phase 3d — Kubernetes-state checks (audit mode, EKS only)

Run this **BEFORE** the fault-chain classification rules below
(see the "Ordering — MANDATORY" note at the top of Phase 3). Phase
3d uses the `kubectl get pods` / `kubectl get nodes` output from
Phase 1 step 8, which is mandatory in audit-mode-on-EKS regardless
of the k8sChecks payload block. Emit each verdict as an
independent symptom record.

**Threshold + namespace configuration.** Read from the payload's

> `data.metadata.k8sChecks` block when present; otherwise use the

Reviewer: ### Phase 3d reads `data.metadata.k8sChecks` — the same skill (and the Lambda) say nested payload objects are flattened

**Observation**: Phase 1 step 8 (and `periodic_audit.py`'s comment: "DevOps Agent preserves the top-level `description` verbatim but flattens nested payload sub-objects") establishes that the k8sChecks config must be parsed from the description line. Phase 3d then says "Read from the payload's `data.metadata.k8sChecks` block when present". The "Inputs the skill expects" section similarly relies on `data.metadata.*` / `data.originalEvent.detail.*` fields.
**Impact**: Two contradictory retrieval stories inside one contract document; whichever the agent follows on a given run, the other path silently yields nothing.
**Suggestion**: Pick one story — description-inline, per the Lambda comment — and state explicitly which top-level fields (if any) survive the platform's flattening.

defaults documented in Phase 1 step 8. If the block is present with
`enabled: false`, DO NOT emit Phase 3d verdicts (customer has
opted out of the k8s-state Escalate) — but Phase 1's kubectl gather
still ran because it's part of general state discovery, and its
data may still surface in Phase 4 report context.

**Pod check — CrashLoopBackOff duration.** For each Pod in the
`kubectl get pods -A -o json` output:

1. **Namespace classification.** Look up `pod.metadata.namespace`:
   - If it is in `k8sChecks.ignoreNamespaces` → skip this pod entirely.
   - If it is in `k8sChecks.systemNamespaces` → workload class is
     `system-workload`.
   - Otherwise → workload class is `customer-workload`.

   This is a plain set-membership lookup, in this exact order. No
   pattern matching, no wildcards, no precedence rules. The Lambda
   has already validated that `ignoreNamespaces` and
   `systemNamespaces` do not overlap, so a pod's namespace matches
   at most one list.

2. **CrashLoopBackOff detection.** For each container in
   `pod.status.containerStatuses[]`, check
   `state.waiting.reason == "CrashLoopBackOff"`. If so, compute the

>    duration since `state.waiting.startedAt` (fall back to

Reviewer: ### Phase 3d cites Kubernetes fields that don't exist (`state.waiting.startedAt`, container-level `Ready` condition)

**Observation**: `ContainerStateWaiting` has only `reason` and `message` — no `startedAt` (that field is on `ContainerStateRunning`) — and `Ready`/`ContainersReady` conditions are pod-level, not per-container ([K8s API reference, Pod v1 core](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.31/#containerstatewaiting-v1-core)).
**Impact**: The agent will find neither field and improvise its own duration heuristic — un-auditable and inconsistent with the Lambda's (already proxy-based) check.
**Suggestion**: Use `lastState.terminated.finishedAt` + `restartCount` (and pod age as the explicit fallback) — ideally the same proxy the Lambda settles on for the CrashLoop-threshold finding in Batch 2, so both layers agree.

Author: Changing issue detection condition to use lastState.terminated.finishedAt + restartCount. Updating the SKILL doc as well.

  health events)
- `data.originalEvent.detail.EventDetails.InstanceGroupName` /
  `InstanceId` (for cluster events)

If the cluster name is missing, abort with "skill cannot run without a
HyperPod cluster name — check the webhook bridge's payload mapping."

## What this skill does NOT do

- **It does not SSH or run SSM on nodes.** The DevOps Agent permission
  guardrail blocks `ssm:StartSession` / `ssm:SendCommand`. When on-node
  evidence is needed (Xid in `dmesg`, DCGM counters, kubelet journal),
  the skill emits a recommendation that includes the exact SSM command
  for the operator to run, never executes it.
- **It does not replace nodes.** `batch-replace-cluster-nodes` is a
  state-changing call; the skill recommends it but never invokes it.
- **It does not modify Slurm or EKS state.** No `scontrol update`, no
  `kubectl cordon`, no label edits.

## Tools used (in-guardrail)

- `sagemaker:DescribeCluster`, `ListClusterNodes`, `DescribeClusterNode`,
  `ListClusterEvents`
- `logs:FilterLogEvents`, `logs:DescribeLogStreams` on
  `/aws/sagemaker/Clusters/*`
- `eks:DescribeCluster` (read-only) and `kubectl get/describe`

>   (via the access entry created by `make eks-access`)

Reviewer: ### `make eks-access` — target doesn't exist (nit)

**Observation**: The Makefile has no `eks-access` target; the access entry is the `AWS::EKS::AccessEntry` created by the CloudFormation stack. Looks like a leftover from a pre-unified-template iteration. `[confirmed]`
**Suggestion**:
```suggestion
  (via the `AWS::EKS::AccessEntry` created by the CloudFormation stack)
```

  health events)
- `data.originalEvent.detail.EventDetails.InstanceGroupName` /
  `InstanceId` (for cluster events)

If the cluster name is missing, abort with "skill cannot run without a
HyperPod cluster name — check the webhook bridge's payload mapping."

## What this skill does NOT do

- **It does not SSH or run SSM on nodes.** The DevOps Agent permission
  guardrail blocks `ssm:StartSession` / `ssm:SendCommand`. When on-node
  evidence is needed (Xid in `dmesg`, DCGM counters, kubelet journal),
  the skill emits a recommendation that includes the exact SSM command
  for the operator to run, never executes it.
- **It does not replace nodes.** `batch-replace-cluster-nodes` is a
  state-changing call; the skill recommends it but never invokes it.
- **It does not modify Slurm or EKS state.** No `scontrol update`, no
  `kubectl cordon`, no label edits.

## Tools used (in-guardrail)

- `sagemaker:DescribeCluster`, `ListClusterNodes`, `DescribeClusterNode`,
  `ListClusterEvents`
- `logs:FilterLogEvents`, `logs:DescribeLogStreams` on
  `/aws/sagemaker/Clusters/*`
- `eks:DescribeCluster` (read-only) and `kubectl get/describe`

>   (via the access entry created by `make eks-access`)

Reviewer: ### Carried over: `make eks-access` still referenced — the target doesn't exist (nit)

**Observation**: The round-1 suggestion for this line appears to have slipped through the (otherwise very thorough) sweep — the Makefile has no `eks-access` target; the access entry is created by the CloudFormation stack.
**Suggestion**:
```suggestion
  (via the `AWS::EKS::AccessEntry` created by the CloudFormation stack)
```

Reviewer 2: +1
I noted this same carryover after re-testing round 2 (commit `8a04e82` fixed the `README.md` occurrence but left the SKILL.md one). KeitaW's suggestions is right.
